it's more than 7 weeks since Hamas
launched its attack in what's been
described as Israel's largest
intelligence failure for 50 years but
analysis for the BBC reveals that Hamas
held multiple training exercises
planning the attacks in plain sight of
Israel over three years and posted the
evidence on social media so how did the
Israeli government miss it here's our
defense correspondent Jonathan
Beal BBC Arabic and BBC verify have been
analyzing evidence posted on the online
messaging service
telegram it shows that Hamas and Gaza
had been openly training for attacks
inside Israel for almost three years
these red dots show the sites from the
far north of the Gaza Strip to the very
south where training took place with
Hamas joined by other Palestinian
factions we've geolocated most of the
images of those training operations with
the four larger Dots here representing
major drills
which took place every year since 2020
each was codenamed strong pillar let's
look more closely at one training camp
less than a kilometer from the eras
Crossing with Israel this image posted
in December
2022 shows a mock Israeli town or
Village complete with a mock tank the
video shows Fighters practicing an
assault it appeared on the Hamas to
telegram Channel as well as one
belonging to a so-called joint operation
room with other Palestinian factions in
fact a propaganda videos which were
publicly accessible were posted to both
channels in another location on the 12th
of September less than a month before
the assault gunmen are practicing going
room to room shooting in what looks like
homes here in an exercise in 2021 the
gate was even painted yellow just like
the kutes that were attacked and in
December last year they were practicing
taking hostages as happened on October
the 7th we've also identified some of
the groups involved in the training
drills as well as Hass 10 different
factions were involved including
Palestinian Islamic Jihad and some
smaller groups six groups in total went
on to publish videos of their Fighters
participating in the October the 7th
Hamas LED assault and Hamas had given
warnings about plans to attack inside
Israel this was a press conference by
Iman noal a senior commander in the
military wing of hassia boasting in 2021
that Israel's border defenses wouldn't
protect it the videos posted of the
September drill code named strong pillar
4 even made the news and a discussion
program on Israel KH 11 television
station the presenter here announcing
that Hamas had simulated an attack on
Israel so with all of this happening in
plain sight how was it that Israeli
soldiers on the ground were taken by
surprise there's clear evidence for a
strategic intelligence failure you have
the data in front of you but you're not
doing anything with it you are feeling
safe behind a fence where you spent
billions of dollars on it you think the
technology that you've invested into
will keep you safe
we asked Israel's Defense Forces for
their response they said the IDF is
currently focused on eliminating the
threat from the terrorist organization
Hamas questions of this kind will be
looked into at a later stage they are
though questions that will haunt Israel
for years to come could the attack have
been anticipated potentially saving 1200
Israeli lives and a war now which is
already according to gaza's health
authority killed more than 14,000
Palestinians